If you want to learn how to build your
very first agent, this video is for you.
No coding skills required.
[music]
By the end of this video, you will know
the basics of AI agents and how to build
your very own.
>> [music]
>> No fluff, no complex setup, no computer
science degree required. Let's go.
[music]
Hey, Alex here with Grit AI Studio.
Welcome to the first video in our agent
build series where we're covering
everything from beginner basics to
productionready systems across multiple
frameworks. You don't have to write the
code yourself and I will explain
everything as we go through. I've been
wanting to put together a comprehensive
guide on agents for a while now,
something for everyone wanting to learn.
So, this is a hands-on build series and
today we're starting with the Clawed
agent SDK. I'm going to walk you through
a progressive build from the very basics
of interacting with Claude, adding
memory to our agent, equipping it with
tools, and finally letting it run as an
autonomous agent working towards goals
that we give it independently. Each step
adds one new concept. By step four,
you'll have a working agent. And if we
have time, I'll show you how to add a
simple user interface so that you can
actually use it. This is your complete
getting started guide to AI agents.
Let's build.
Before we start coding, let's get
crystal clear on what we're actually
building. Now, there are many
definitions out there, and for some
reason, people love discussing what an
agent is or isn't. No, that's just an
automation. No, that's an agentic
workflow. Honestly, I don't think it
matters that much what we call it, but
I've generally found that this
definition is quite useful in explaining
it. An agent is an LLM with tools that
runs in a loop. Three components, that's
the core concept. A brain with hands
that runs in a loop. There seems to be
somewhat consensus, at least around the
concept of tools in a loop. An LLM agent
runs tools in a loop to achieve a goal.
As Simon Wilson also points out, the
part about achieving a goal also means
that there are not infinite loops. There
is a stopping condition. In addition, we
also assume some level of short-term
memory to be able to work in more than
one loop. Okay, so three key components
plus memory. The LLM is the brain.
Claude, sonet 4.5, GPD5, Gemini, any
large language model. It does reasoning,
the planning, the decision-making. Tools
are the hands. Tools let your AI
interact with the real world. Search the
web, read files, write code, call APIs,
access databases for added context, and
to be able to act on our behalf. And by
the way, the model context protocol or
MCP is widely adopted as our means to
equip LLMs with tools. We have a whole
video on that topic over here. So
finally the loop is what makes it
autonomous. The agent runs in a cycle.
Look at your goal, decide what to do
next. Use a tool or more. Respond. Check
if the goal is complete and if not loop
again. Now our AI assistants today like
Claude or Chat GPT, they're definitely
more agentic than they were just a year
ago. They can access tools, search the
web, analyze files, and even run code.
Features like chatbt's deep research
mode or Claude's ability to use special
skills illustrates how systems are
evolving beyond simple chat into goal
oriented agents that can gather
information and take action
autonomously. Agent mode in Chat GBT and
the Atlas browser is clearly a sign of
where we are heading. Here's the thing.
Whether we're talking about a simple
single task agent that completes one
research query or a fully autonomous
longunning agent that manages complex
workflows over hours or even days. The
underlying principles are the same.
Brain tools in a loop. And honestly, the
terminology debates is this a workflow,
an automation, an agent, don't really
matter much in practice. What matters is
does it solve your problem? Does it save
you time? Does it deliver value? Call it
whatever you want. If an LLM with access
to tools running in a loop helps you get
work done, that's what matters. We're
here to build useful systems, not argue
about definitions. So today, let's focus
on building something real with these
four steps. Evolving from a simple Q&A
agent to adding memory, equipping it
with tools, and finally letting it run
in a loop towards solving our goals. By
the end, you'll see exactly how these
three components come together to create
something that can work independently.
Now, there are several more advanced
concepts that we'll cover in future
videos like persistent memory systems,
guardrails, multi- aent collaboration,
and so on, but today is all about the
foundation brain with tools in a loop.
A year ago, if you wanted to build an AI
agent using Claude or OpenAI's API, you
had to do a lot of the plumbing
yourself. You'd manually manage
conversation state across multiple API
calls, parse tool calling responses,
implement the agent loop where model
calls tools and receive results, handle
errors and retries, and build your own
permission system to control what tools
the agent could use. It was totally
doable, but you'd write hundreds of
lines of boilerplate before getting to
the interesting stuff. And to be honest,
you probably had to be a developer to do
it. For some cases, you want direct API
access. And if you're a developer, you
might want complete control over all
aspects, and that's fine. But for most
of us, frameworks and SDKs help us build
agents much quicker. I aim to cover a
number of frameworks in this series,
starting with the Clawed agent SDK. The
SDK is a higher level framework built on
top of the Clawude API designed
specifically for building intelligent
persistent agents. It's the same agent
harness that Antropic uses for Clawude
code. We have the ultimate getting
started guide to Claude code here. The
beauty is that with SDKs like the
Clawude agent SDK, you get built-in
conversation management, automatic tool
calling loops, streaming responses, and
standardized tool integration through
protocols like MCP. Now, maybe those are
some technical terms, but we'll get back
to it. What used to take a weekend of
infrastructure code now takes a few
lines of code, so you can focus on
building the agents capabilities rather
than reinventing the wheel. And here's
the big one, the agent loop. With a
basic API call, you get one query, one
response, and done. But true agentic
behavior means the model can think, I
need more information to answer this,
call a tool to get it, evaluate the
result, maybe call another tool, and
keep iterating until the task is
complete. With the raw APIs, you'd have
to build this loop yourself. Check if
the model wants to use a tool, and then
execute it. feed its result back, call
the API again, repeat, and so on. You're
manually orchestrating every step. With
the SDK, it handles the entire loop for
you. The model autonomously calls tools,
processes results, and keeps going until
it's satisfied or hits the turn limit.
That's the difference between a simple
chatbot and an agent that can actually
do stuff. Over the course of this
series, I intend to cover a number of
frameworks for building agents. I'm not
promising everything here, but there are
several notable ones in the landscape
that you can look at if you don't like
the clawed agent SDK, such as Agent Kit
by OpenAI, which we've covered
previously on the channel. And from the
big players, we also have Google Agent
Development Kit or ADK, or the Microsoft
Agent Framework, which plugs nicely with
Microsoft Ashure AI Foundry platform if
you're on the Ashure platform. Both ADK
and Microsoft agent framework are
open-source frameworks. Langchain and
Langraph are popular open- source
options for LLM applications and agents.
We have done a few build series videos
in the past where we use Langchain. Then
you also have Crew AI which was
specifically designed for multi- aent
systems and many more options in the low
code and no code space as well.
Let me show you what we're working with.
As mentioned, the Claude agent SDK was
previously called Claude Code SDK and is
in fact the same agent harness that
Entropic uses for Claude Code with all
its power. At its core, the SDK gives us
the primitives to build agents for
whatever workflow we're trying to
automate. It gives you everything needed
for our three agent components, LLM,
tools in a loop. So, let's start with
the LLM. The SDK runs on top of the
anthropic API so that we get direct
access to the brain. In this case,
Claude. The SDK handles all the
complexity. API calls, conversation
management. You just focus on what you
want to build or solve. Then we have the
tools. The SDK provides a very easy way
to define and equip our agent with
tools. We'll come back to this in
further details later on. And then
lastly, the agentic loop. This is what
makes it autonomous. Entropy calls it
the agentic loop and it runs
automatically in a specific feedback
loop. Phase one is about gathering
context. First, the agent examines your
goal, reviews available tools, consider
what it knows so far. Phase two is about
taking action. Once the agent has
gathered context, we want to give our
agent flexible ways of taking action.
Tools are the primary building blocks of
execution for your agent. Tools are
prominent in Claude's context window,
making them the primary actions Claude
will consider when deciding how to
complete a task. We can define our own
tools or make use of MCPS in addition to
the built-in tools that Claud code
already offers. The agent picks a tool
to use or decides it has enough
information to respond. Clude agent SDK
also excels at code generation, which is
also one potential action that the agent
might use as part of the loop. And
lastly, phase three, verifying work. The
Claude Code SDK finishes the agentic
loop by evaluating its work. Agents that
can check and improve their own output
are fundamentally more reliable. They
catch mistakes before they compound,
self-correct when they drift, and get
better as they iterate. The key to this
part is giving CLA concrete ways to
evaluate its work. both when we build
agents, us being the one evaluating the
output and when the agent itself is
running. And then let's call it phase
four is repeating. If the goal isn't
met, the agent will loop back with new
information. This continues until the
agent determines that the task is
complete. Now, without getting too
technical, the SDK supports two
interaction modes. Single message mode
through the query feature. Here we send
an instruction that the agent runs and
then returns the final result. And then
we have continuous conversation or
streaming mode through the clawed SDK
client. This gives us the full agent
experience with conversation memory tool
support and so on. So two things jumped
out for me when I started with this
framework. First, how little code we
actually need to get up and running. And
second, how easy it is to define and
expose tools to our agent. The real
investment in any agent should be clear
descriptions of tools, knowledge, and
context, not the code. The clearer we
describe what a tool does, the better
decisions your agent makes. The clearer
we describe the role of our agent in the
system prompt, the better it will act on
our behalf. All of this boils down to
natural language and not code.
Before we start coding, we need to set
up an anthropic account with Claude
code. Check out our entire getting
started guide to Claude Code in the
description below. Now that you have
Claude Code ready, you can choose
between the Python SDK or the TypeScript
SDK. I'll use the Python SDK in this
video for simplicity. For that, we
obviously need Python installed. And
then we can install the Clawed Agent
SDK. Open your terminal and type in pip
install clawed agent SDK. And that's it.
Now you're ready. Now let's build this
thing step by step.
All right, here's our plan for today.
Four steps, each adding one new concept.
Step one, the foundation, a stateless
agent that answers simple queries. Step
two, adding memory so that our agent
becomes conversational and remembers
context. And then step three, adding
tools to our agent. This way, it can
access real data and perform actions for
us. And finally, step four, adding our
loop and uh turning it into an
autonomous agent. Letting our agent work
towards a goal with the tools that it
has available. We'll use a simple
example of building an autonomous agent
that can assist us in travel planning,
but the building blocks and steps are
the same for whatever you want to build.
You could build a personal research
assistant that gathers and synthesizes
information, a customer support agent
that handles inquiries and creates
tickets, an email management system that
drafts responses and prioritizes
messages, or even a code review
assistant that analyzes repositories and
suggests improvements. The building
blocks are the same. Okay, let's go.
Let's start with the bare minimum. Just
talking to Claude. No memory, no tools,
no loop. Just one question and one
answer. Okay, so let's start with the
first step. We're going to fire up
Claude code in an empty project and run
this prompt to build a simple trip
planning agent. We'll start with the
basic. In step one, we'll simply ask
Claude some travel planning questions
and it'll give us answers. No memory, no
conversation, just quick oneshot
responses. Think of it like asking a
travel expert individual questions
without any context between them. Let's
see what that looks like. We're building
an agent using the Claude agent SDK in
Python. We'll do this in several steps.
Starting with a basic agent that
responds to simple trip planning
queries. We'll run this first prompt in
plan mode and use ultrathink to let Clo
properly plan it out and get the
appropriate context. We'll get some
clarifying questions before we can
approve the plan and get to work. And of
course, we also share the documentation
for reference. Claude code is an
excellent example of an agent. It gets
the goal from the user, then makes a
plan. It uses a number of different
tools, involves us to clarify, and then
gets to work writing the code. It will
test that things work, and if not, it
will go back and fix the code until it
feels that it has completed the task at
hand.
Okay, so let's talk about what actually
happens here. From the Claude agent SDK,
we're using the query function together
with the Claude agent options. Claude
agent options is where we define the
settings of our agent. Most importantly,
the system prompt that defines what kind
of agent this is and what we expect it
to do. Again, in plain English. This is
also where we define the permissions for
our agent. In this simple case, we're
only going to do basic responses. So, we
set it to plan mode. Our super simple
stateless agent is essentially this
piece of code here making use of the
query function that takes the query from
the user as input together with our
agent options. Then we simply loop over
the messages that this produces and
combine them into a response text that
we return and print. Simple as that.
Just a few lines of code. We can ask
Claude Code to run it for us. It will
install requirements and set up the
virtual environment for us. We can see
the queries and the responses from the
agent or very simple chatbot at this
stage but it's working. The formatting
is raw but we can see all the output
from the agent. That's pretty cool.
At this stage we will run a slashinit to
create a claude md file based on our
project so far and then clear the
context window before we proceed to the
next step. Okay. So now let's expand on
our agent functionality and add
conversational trip planning with
memory.
Now Claude moves away from our stateless
query approach from step one and instead
turns our agent into a conversational
agent using the Claude SDK client. It
went through a few loops before it
manages to finish this implementation,
but it got there in the end. Claude Code
actually tests the code for us here as
well. And we can see parts of the
conversation playing out on the screen
here. Now I want to mention that a trick
is to actually load the entire docs into
the project as we can actually download
the SDK docs as a markdown file that
claude code can reference when needed.
Okay, so first let's go through the code
here. The main difference here is that
we've replaced our simple stateless
query function with the stateful claw
SDK client. Then we simulate a
multi-step conversation with a user
asking several questions. We create our
agent with a clawed SDK client and our
agent options. And then we simulate
multiple uses of the client query and
client receive response functions. Our
client holds memory of the conversation
and will be able to answer a question
based on prior knowledge from the
conversation.
Okay. So let's add some tools to our
agent in the making. Let's say we want
to check the weather and also organize
our planning tasks into a little
database. Now, this is just to show how
easy it is to actually make your own
tools, but you could equally connect to
existing tools through MCP like for
instance your calendar, the Google Maps
MCP for directions or maybe notion for
organizing your travel plans. Let's try
something like this just to demonstrate.
Again, I will clear the context before
we proceed. I'll be specific about what
tools we want to add. I'll ask for a
weather tool and point to the free and
public service called.no.
And I'll ask it to make a task
management tool using SQLite, which is a
lightweight, serverless, and
self-contained relational database
engine that Python has built-in support
for. I'll answer these questions. Let's
make things a bit interesting here.
Okay, let's go.
Okay, there we go. It seems to be
working from the test, but let's take it
for a spin before we review the code.
Let's make the output a bit prettier to
read in our console. We'll just ask
Cloyd Code to help us clean this up a
bit.
Now, that's a lot better. This looks
great. We can see it's using the tool
and it remembers the context as we ask
the next questions. This demo here is
not really working which is to be
expected as the code generated some
steps without knowing that our agent
would actually ask a question back after
the first step here. So let's just
update this so that it makes a bit more
sense for our demo. In the real world,
you would of course talk to the agent
and answer the questions yourselves.
We'll get to that very soon.
Claude changes the examples and also
makes some adjustments to the system
prompt here. Okay, there we go. Now it
makes sense. And it's actually using the
task management tools here as well.
Creating a bunch of tasks for us
actually.
All right. And then checking off tasks
as well and giving us a status. Awesome.
Let's have a look at the code for
creating tools. This deserves a bit of
attention. Again, you don't need to
understand everything, but if you're a
developer, this might be handy to
understand. Okay, so we see we have two
files here, tools and tools demo agents.
So this is our agent. And let's start by
looking at the actual tools that we
create over here. So in this tools file,
we can see that Claude has made use of
the tool decorator from the Claude agent
SDK. And then it's setting up a little
database with SQLite. Okay, it's
actually making a list of locations
because our weather API uses locations
as coordinates. But here's the fun part.
It's using this tool decorator to give
the tool a name and a description. And
then it describes the parameters that
it's expecting. And then we have the
logic of the actual tool where you can
see that it's taking the name of the
city and mapping it to the coordinates
that we saw earlier in this file. Yeah.
And then it's using the API to get the
weather forecast for the next seven
days.
and then it just formats the response
into a nice 7-day weather forecast which
it then eventually returns in this JSON
that our agent can make use of. This way
of creating tools is actually really
elegant. Then the second tool is to
create tasks. So you can see that we
create planning tasks for a trip. It's
going to be making use of our database.
It's going to take in some parameters
and the same approach all the logic that
goes into the tool. It's making use of
the SQL light database and then in this
case inserts a task. Similar tool for
listing a task. We have the same
approach for completing a task. And you
can see that we also have a delete task
down here. So that's about it. All of
those tools are then imported into our
agent. So in our agent, we can see that
we'll just hide this for now. This was
the formatting we asked for, by the way.
Okay, we can see that we have our demo
scenario number one. So here we see
we're still using the clawed agent
option with a system prompt but we're
now feeding in a list of MCP tools which
in this case is called travel tools. So
this here creates an inprocess MCP
server that runs within our application
and in this case it's got a name.
Importantly we also need to give it a
version. And then we have the list of
tools that we defined in the tools file.
And then one important thing to note is
that in order for our agent to actually
be able to use them, we need to also
list the tools unless we just accept
all. But in this case, we're giving a
list of tools. So here the format is
essentially MCP underscore then the name
of the MCP server from here and then the
name of the tool like this. And that's
it. And then in this case, we're again
just simulating a multi-turn
conversation. We're using the CLA SDK
client which gives us memory and we're
essentially just feeding our options
which includes the MCB tools. The same
for the other parts of our flow just
different examples. Again, both using
the weather forecast and our task
management tools. Tools essentially give
our agents access to additional context
when needed to solve a problem or
achieving a goal or to execute actions
on our behalf. For instance, a weather
tool provides real-time temperature
data. A calendar tool checks your
schedule and finds free slots. A file
system tool reads documents or saves
reports. But tools don't just retrieve
information. They can act on your
behalf. The same calendar tool can book
meetings. An email tool can draft and
send messages. A database tool can write
records, not just query them. So when
you say book a 30-inut meeting with John
tomorrow at 2, well, Claude doesn't just
tell you how to do it. It actually does
it. It calls the booking tool, creates
the meeting, and confirms that it's
done. Each tool expands what the agent
can actually do beyond generating text.
So, we'll dive deeper into MCPS in a
future video, but it's worth pointing
out as a side note that OOTH 2 MCP
authentication incl.
So, any MCP that requires an OOTH flow,
you'll need to work around this. But the
SDK supports custom tools like we've
demonstrated today. And you can also use
external MCPS that use tokens for
authentication.
Let's take our agent to the next level.
Now that we have tools in tool demo
agent PI, now let's make a fully
autonomous trip planning agent that
works towards goals independently
without asking questions. The user feeds
in preferences and the agent works
through the tools available until goal
is achieved. And then we'll just add
that the user needs to input enough
information at step one in the example.
Claude outlines a plan for us and starts
building our autonomous trip planning
agent. We can see here that it's added
some direction in the system prompt
telling it to not ask additional
questions. Make sure that it covers some
steps. This is of course optional and we
can change that behavior later if we
want to.
Okay, actually let's try asking for a
slightly more autonomous approach and
add the web search here as well.
Okay, now we see that the agent thinks
and makes its plan using a number of
tools to collect context then starts
planning the trips by using our task
management tools. And there we have it,
a complete plan for our upcoming Euro
trip. That's pretty cool.
Let's look at the code. So we use the
same components from the claude agent
SDK here. The SDK client agent options
and our create SDK MCP server function.
We inject the same tools in addition to
a new web search tool here. Then we have
a couple of utility functions here for
formatting the output messages and this
one to parse the trip planning input.
Let's not worry too much about that. We
create the MCP server for our tools. And
then we have a comprehensive system
prompt here describing the tools, the
key principles, and clearly stating that
the agent shall work autonomously to
achieve the goal from the user to create
a comprehensive travel plan. We even
tell the agent to figure out the best
approach and to be creative and adaptive
in how it uses the available tools. We
define the allowed tools and then just
parse the user input with our helper
function and then run our agent loop.
Here we just use our format message
function to write the output in a
prettier way. And that's it.
Okay, let's add a bonus step before we
wrap up. We can now run our agent
anytime that we want by typing Python
and the name of the file in the command
line. We can change the goal in the
code. So, we have the foundation of an
agent, but maybe not very intuitive and
easy for day-to-day use. So, let's see
how easy it is to actually add a simple
user interface so you can actually use
this agent without running Python
scripts every time. Let's spin up a
simple user interface so that we can
actually interact with our agent. There
are many ways to do this and we'll cover
more in future episodes, but for now,
let's make use of something very simple
called Gradio. We'll just ask Claude to
build this for us.
Okay, I was thinking something simple,
but why not? We might as well spice it
up with some additional features. Export
plan, a canban style taskboard, and a
trip gallery. Okay, let's keep it simple
for the rest here. Okay, let's try.
[music]
Wow, it actually managed to oneshot this
entire thing. One simple prompt and it
works. I then write a single line of
code. Now you have a web interface. Type
your goal or questions. Click run. Watch
it work. We can chat. ask questions. It
has memory and we can ask for a complete
trip plan. That's pretty cool. If you
want a command line version, just ask
for that. It really is that
straightforward once you're up and
running with the Clawed agent SDK. All
right, there we have it. A complete
guide from zero to a fully autonomous AI
agent with a powerful Clawed agent SDK.
And we didn't write a single line of
code ourselves.
Let's recap what we've built. In step
one, we did simple queries, talk to
Claude like a Q&A agent with no tools.
Then in step two, we moved over to the
stateful Claude SDK client, giving us
memory in our conversations. In step
three, we added custom tools, giving
Claude access to real data and context.
And in step four, we tuned our system
prompt into an autonomous agent that
runs a loop until goal has been reached.
And as a bonus, we added a user
interface. Each step added one concept.
By step four, we had all three
components working together. Our LLM
brain, tools for hands, and a loop for
autonomy. This progression is how you
should think about building any agent.
Start simple. Add capabilities one at a
time. Test each step. Don't try to build
everything all at once. In future
videos, we'll cover more frameworks and
also more advanced concepts. And we'll
definitely cover voice agents and multi-
aent workflows as well. So, make sure
you hit that like button and subscribe
to not miss out. After watching this, I
really hope you go away and build your
own agents and experiment. Change the
system prompt, change the tools, try
different goals, break it, fix it,
experiment. The best way to learn agents
is to build them yourselves. I hope you
found this video helpful. If you build
something interesting, I genuinely want
to see it. Let me know in the comments
below. Thanks a lot for watching and
I'll see you in the next